* S3 buckets are not encrypted, objects are
* Each object in a bucket might be using different encryption settings

## Encryption At Rest

### Client Side Encryption
* The objects are encrypted by client & S3 receives the encrypted data
* S3 never sees the unencrypted version
### Server Side Encryption
* S3 takes the unencrypted versions. Then it encrypts & saves encrypted objects
* SSE-C - Customer Provided Keys
    * Key is provided by Customer
    * Encryption happens on AWS. 
    * Encrypted Object & Hash of the key used for encryption is stored in S3. The key itself is destroyed.
    * To decrypt the Key used to encrypt needs to be provided. S3 validates it against hash & then returns decrypted object.
* SSE-S3 - Amazon S3 Managed Keys ( Default)
    * Client only provides the object.
    * S3 generates key for every object it encrypts.
    * Client has no control over Creation, Management or Rotation of keys. Its entirely managed by S3
    * Each of the key is encrypted by using another key & encrypted object , key are stored together
    * The downside is role sepeation is not possible. Anybody who has access to creation of keys i.e. Full S3 Administrator can encrypt or decrypt data
* SSE-KMS - KMS Managed Keys
    * Here instead of S3, KMS managed key is used
    * S3 requests a new DEK to be generated using a KMS key
    * KMS returns plaintext & ciphertext version of DEK
    * S3 uses plaintext DEK to encrypt the data & then discards the plaintext key
    * Encrypted data & ciphertext DEK is stored.
    * If S3 Administrator does not have access to KMS key, he can't decrypt S3 objects. This way role seperation can be achieved.

### Encryption Types Summary

| Method | Key Management | Encryption Responsibility | Comments |
| ------- | ------------- | ------------------------- | -------- |
| Client Side | User | User | Plain text version never seen by AWS |
| SSE - C | User | S3 | - |
| SSE - S3 | S3 | S3 | No control over Key lifecycle, no role seperation |
| SSE - KMS | KMS | S3 | Role Seperation.Key Lifecycle Control |

### Bucket Keys
* The GenerateDEK opeation can only be run  5500, 10000 or 50,000 times per second depending upon the region. This throttles number of objects you can encrypt with DEKs that are generated by single KMS key
* In case of Bucket Keys - KMS generates a time limited Bucket key, which is given to S3.
* This Bucket Key is used to generate DEKs for all objects within that bucket
